# Test generation software for the Goose Creek Memorial MathMinds Club competition.

Created by Joseph Kopecky with the help of Aayush Koora.

## INSTRUCTIONS FOR USERS:

* Download a release from Github (this should include a jar file and a json file)
* Place those two files in a folder on your computer 
  * I recommend this be in the `C:Users/YOURNAME/Documents/MathMindsOutput` folder for ease of use
* Make sure you have a compatible version of the Java Runtime Environment installed.
  * Builds were probably made with JRE 18, so you should be good to use that.
* Run the jar file
  * If running in the file explorer does not work, use the command line.
  * First, navigate to the directory that the jar and json files are in.
    * For me, this is done with `cd Documents/MathMindsOutput`, because my command line defaults to putting me in the `Users/Jmkop` directory.
  * Then, run the following command: `java -jar MathMindsTestGen.jar`
  * Magic.
* In the text box, input the name of the test you wish to generate.
* Click the generate button.
* Check in the `C:Users/YOURNAME/Documents/MathMindsOutput` folder for the pdf file.
* Rinse and repeat.

## Other useful instructions: 

* The question templates are managed primarily within the JSON file.
* However, when you add a new template or otherwise change the fields or calculation for an existing template, the Java code must also be modified.
* If you are creating a new template, you must create a new method in the TemplateSolvers java class.
* The following is an example of the requisite code:

```
public static double placeholderSolve(HashMap<String, Double> fields) {
        System.out.println("placeholdersolve running");
        //fields: "_int:1-5_", "_int:6-10_"
        return fields.get("_int:1-5_") + fields.get("_int:6-10_");
    }
```
* The non-name parts of the method signature `public static double` and `(HashMap<String, Double> fields)` should be the same.
* The name of the method MUST match exactly the `keymethod` field in the JSON file.
* The `return` line is where you can calculate and return the result of that question. 
* Use `fields.get("fieldcode")` to retrieve the value of a field from the problem.
  * `fieldcode` should match exactly that which is contained in the JSON file.
  * It should also be in the format of `_int:lower-upper_` or `_double:lower-upper`, with lower being the lowest possible value for that field and upper being the greatest possible value.
* The `System.out.println();` line is optional but good for debugging. If you are using it, change 'placeholdersolve' to the name of the method.

## Maintaining this repository: 

 * If you change either the JSON file or the java code, you absolutely MUST update the repository with your changes. Please!
 * Additionally, you should create a new release on the repository containing the new JSON file as well as a .jar build of the code.
 * If you need a tutorial on building a .jar file from a project, either use Google (if you are at all planning a career in software development you better get used to it) or contact someone in the club. A contact option is the developer of this code (Joseph Kopecky) at joseph.m.kopecky@gmail.com, in the Instagram group chat, or in person.
   * There are no guarantees made that Joseph will be able to render aid. JUST USE GOOGLE SERIOUSLY IT'S NOT THAT HARD.
 * Any complaints about the quality of this code can be left at the door.
 * The entirety of the app UI is contained within the `AppInterface` class. If you are intending to improve the UI, that's where you should be.
 * The `TemplateSolvers` class is strictly for the solver methods that are used by `Question` objects.
 * The `TemplateQuestion` class is a utility for storing and accessing information parsed from the JSON file.
 * The `TestContainer` class is yet another utility for containing test titles and an ArrayList of `Question` objects.
 * The `CreateOutput` class contains methods used to process a `TestContainer` object.
   * `.string()` outputs the `TestContainer` information in a string, probably only useful for debugging.
   * `.pdf()` generates a pdf document from the `TestContainer`.
     * This processes a string of HTML, generated by the `.html()` method.